Article 50 — Transparency Obligations for Certain AI Systems

1. Providers shall ensure that AI systems intended to interact with natural persons are designed and developed in such a way that the natural persons concerned are informed that they are interacting with an AI system, unless this is obvious from the point of view of a natural person who is reasonably well-informed, observant and circumspect, taking into account the circumstances and the context of use. This obligation shall not apply to AI systems authorised by law to detect, prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal offences, subject to appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of third parties, unless those systems are available for the public to report a criminal offence.

2. Providers of AI systems, including general-purpose AI systems, generating synthetic audio, image, video or text content, shall ensure that the outputs of the AI system are marked in a machine-readable format and detectable as artificially generated or manipulated. This obligation shall not apply to the extent the AI systems perform an assistive function for standard editing or do not substantially alter the input data provided by the deployer or the semantics thereof, or where authorised by law to detect, prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal offences.

3. Deployers of an AI system that generates or manipulates image, audio or video content constituting a deep fake, shall disclose that the content has been artificially generated or manipulated. This obligation shall not apply where the use is authorised by law to detect, prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal offences or where the content is part of an obviously satirical, artistic, creative, fictional or analogous work or programme.

4. Deployers of an AI system generating or manipulating text which is published with the purpose of informing the public on matters of public interest shall disclose that the text has been artificially generated or manipulated, unless the AI-generated content has undergone a process of human review or editorial control and a natural or legal person is liable for the publication.

5. The information referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 shall be provided to the natural persons concerned in a clear and distinguishable manner at the latest at the time of the first interaction or exposure. The information shall be accessible and understandable for the persons concerned.

Source: Regulation (EU) 2024/1689, Article 50.