Article 14 — Human Oversight

1. High-risk AI systems shall be designed and developed in such a way, including with appropriate human-machine interface tools, that they can be effectively overseen by natural persons during the period in which they are in use.

2. Human oversight shall aim to prevent or minimise the risks to health, safety or fundamental rights that may emerge when a high-risk AI system is used in accordance with its intended purpose or under conditions of reasonably foreseeable misuse, in particular where such risks persist despite the application of other requirements set out in this Chapter.

3. Human oversight measures shall be commensurate with the risks associated with the high-risk AI system and with the context in which it is used. Those measures shall be identified by the provider or, where appropriate, by the deployer, and shall enable the individuals to whom human oversight is assigned to do the following, as appropriate to the circumstances:
   (a) to properly understand the relevant capacities and limitations of the high-risk AI system and be able to duly monitor its operation, including in view of detecting and addressing anomalies, dysfunctions and unexpected performance;
   (b) to remain aware of the possible tendency of automatically relying or over-relying on the output produced by a high-risk AI system (automation bias), in particular for high-risk AI systems used to provide information or recommendations for decisions to be taken by natural persons;
   (c) to be able to correctly interpret the high-risk AI system's output, taking into account in particular the characteristics and limitations of the system;
   (d) to be able to decide, in any particular situation, not to use the high-risk AI system or otherwise disregard, override or reverse the output of the high-risk AI system;
   (e) to be able to intervene in the operation of the high-risk AI system or interrupt the system through a 'stop' function or a similar procedure that allows the system to come to a halt in a safe state.

4. For high-risk AI systems referred to in Annex III, points 1(a), (b), (c) and (e) (biometric, critical infrastructure, education, law enforcement), the human oversight measures shall be such as to ensure effective oversight by at least one natural person.

Source: Regulation (EU) 2024/1689, Article 14.