Article 10 — Data and Data Governance (Regulation (EU) 2024/1689)

1. High-risk AI systems shall be developed on the basis of training, validation and testing data sets that meet the quality criteria referred to in paragraphs 2 to 5.

2. Training, validation and testing data sets shall be relevant, representative, free of errors and complete. They shall have the appropriate statistical properties, including as regards the persons or groups of persons on which the high-risk AI system is intended to be used. Those properties of the data sets shall be met at the level of the individual data sets or at the level of a combination thereof.

3. Training, validation and testing data sets shall be designed and selected with a view to minimising the introduction of bias that could lead to discrimination prohibited under Union law and to ensuring that the data sets are sufficiently representative of the population or the target group for which the high-risk AI system is intended to be used.

4. Training, validation and testing data sets shall take into account, to the extent required by the intended purpose, the characteristics or elements that are particular to the specific geographical, contextual, behavioural or functional setting within which the high-risk AI system is intended to be used.

5. Data sets used for the development of high-risk AI systems shall be subject to appropriate data governance and data management practices. Those practices shall include, in particular:
   (a) the design choices regarding the data collection, data preparation, data labelling, data cleaning, data validation and data aggregation processes;
   (b) the formulation of relevant assumptions, notably with respect to the information that the data sets are intended to measure and represent;
   (c) an assessment of the availability, quantity and suitability of the data sets that are needed;
   (d) an examination of possible biases in the data sets and appropriate mitigation measures;
   (e) the identification of any relevant data gaps or shortcomings and how those gaps and shortcomings can be addressed.

6. The data governance and data management practices referred to in paragraph 5 shall apply without prejudice to the requirements laid down in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR) and Directive (EU) 2016/680.

7. Providers of high-risk AI systems shall ensure that the data sets used for the development of those systems are accompanied by appropriate documentation, including information on the data collection process, the data sources used, and any processing operations applied to the data.

Source: Regulation (EU) 2024/1689, Article 10. Data and data governance requirements for high-risk AI systems.